---
layout: post
title: "Why I Started to Shoot Film Again"
description: "A Reflection on a return to analog"
date: 2023-06-27
feature_image: images/filmcam.JPG
tags: [personal, cameras, film]
---
Something in the last year has really made me fall out of love with my digital camera. Not my camera specifically, my trusty GH4 has done nothing but serve me well these last few years, but the digital medium as a whole. I started taking pictures as a really little kid. My parents got me a small silver plastic film camera. I have no idea who made it, but it was basically just a disposable camera that you could reload, right down to the thumb wheel film advance, man was that hard for my small kid hands to work. I remember when I got my first digital camera, a Kodak EasyShare C112, that I still have to this day. I loved that camera and for the time it took great pictures. I never looked back on film until about 2 years ago when I fixed my Polaroid 600. Something about having to count my photos left and think about what I was really taking a picture of was appealing. Polaroid film is expensive as all hell so you really think before firing. With digital, I can hold my finger on the shutter and just blaze away and add onto that the fact that in Lightroom I can fix almost anything short of maybe focus in the computer, photography started to feel less and less deliberate to me.

<!--more-->

Enter my parents’ attic. They keep almost everything, and while I was home from college for the summer, I happened to find my parents’ old film SLRs, a Pentax K1000 and a Olympus OM-1. Two classic film bodies, well made, and with 50mm primes mounted. While I still might go back and shoot some rolls through the K1000, the OM-1 is what ended up making the journey with my back to school, as well as a big assortment of Goodwill find point and shoot film cameras. So far, I have mainly used the OM-1 and a Minolta Maxxium 7000, one of the most 80s looking cameras of all time, and the first fully automatic auto focus SLR. It was an eye-opening experience. I’m not ignorant of how much more film is but learning to work with the cost of Kodak Gold 200 over my head has forced me to think about my photos again, in a way that I have not since I was first learning the basics of a DSLR. 

There are issues with shooting film, for one, maintaining these aging cameras is a problem that will only continue to get worse. Another is that people like me who are running back to Kodak and Ilford are shooting used film camera prices through the roof, not everyone has parents with a packed attic. Another problem is finding a lab that you trust to develop your work in a timely manner. I am lucky to have plenty of options, mainly because I live in the sixth largest city in the USA, and with so many colleges in the area, the amount of us hipster film nerd types are nearly limitless. I can’t say the same for some of the more rural areas of the country, like even my hometown has no film labs in short driving distance. This means that rolls will have to be mailed out for development, adding to the turnaround time. I can get my film scanned and developed in 24 hours, and with some clever subway timing, I can even grab the negatives in that time frame as well. As some of my work is time sensitive, I can understand why digital is the only option for so many. 


{% include image_caption.html imageurl="/images/hardware.JPG" title="Hardware Store on Kodak Gold 200" caption="Hardware Store on Kodak Gold 200." %}

Whether you are deciding to shoot film for some of the reasons I did, or just for that sweet retro look, I think there is a lot of merit to going back to analog. A few weeks ago, I decided to waste 4 dollars and pick up a singular share of Eastman Kodak stock. Do I think I will make money? No, I expect to lose every cent, but I hope that I am proven wrong. I want future generations to be able to experience the struggle of using a film advance as a small kid. I want future generations to feel what it is like to take a picture, the sound of the film advance ratchet, the old cloth shutter, all things that are tactile and real. Digital will always be more reliable and convenient, but the fact that analog is anything but, thats where the magic is, and why I just can’t stop swiping my poor credit card for more Kodak Gold.